In order to start working on
the controls and everything.
So we don't have to backtrack, and
come back, and double take, and
do all these like refactoring.
I wanna get the state situation figured
out before we start working on the UI.
And the whole situation with the state
is I mean because go look at the app,
I wanna come in here and
I wanna click play.
So play this entire playlist, or I wanna
come in and I want to click a song and
I want it to play, but
how does this player board know that?
Right now, we don't have any state
situation set up to where we can
understand what is actively playing,
what is the active playlist?
That's not something that we have set up,
we've just been using local state and
hooks for now.
So we need to set up some type of
global state that we need to use so
that these two components can
communicate with each other.
And there's a million ways to do that.
You can can use Redux,
that's what Redux was created for.
In the world of hooks,
you can use hooks plus context API.
There's performance trade off to that,
unless you use it correctly.
Basically, you have every component
re-rendering all the time,
which is a very common thing that I see
when people will hooks and context.
But I'm actually just gonna
use this super easy drop in
state library that works
very well with hooks.
It's almost like Redux but
it's just way more lightweight and
not a lot of ceremony and setup.
And we'll use that to get our state.
And again, we need to keep track
of the active playlist, and
the active song, and what those are.
And we need to be able
to change that state so
that way this component knows about it.
So that's what we'll be doing.
So in order to do that,
you should already have something
installed to help us with that.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna go to the lib,
we're gonna make a new file,
we're gonna call it store.ts.
And inside the store,
we're gonna import something from
Easy Peasy [LAUGH] I said it is easy,
it's in the name.
It's literally called Easy Peasy.
I like the fact that the creator's called
it this because it is really easy.
It won a bunch of awards for
how easy it is with React.
So we're gonna import createStore and
then we're gonna import action.
So if you ever use Redux, you probably
already familiar with those two things.
We're making a store,
there's action but it's not the same.
I think internally it does use Redux,
I'm pretty sure Easy Peasy
uses Redux internally.
But it just abstracted away so
well that you just don't even
know where you don't even care.
So we wanna create a store, so
we're gonna export cons store.
And that's gonna be createStore, and
basically the way the store works
is you can put some state on it and
then you can put some actions on it.
And you can also put computer
properties but we don't need that.
So as far as the state,
I wanna keep track of the active songs and
that's going to be an array.
I wanna keep track of
active song singular, and
that's just gonna start off as null.
So those are really only two
things I wanna keep track of.
And then I need actions to change
those things, to modify those things.
So I'm gonna make an action for
changeActiveSongs.
And the way you can do that is you just
set that to the action import that
we have, which is a function,
that just takes a callback.
So it'll take the state and
then it'll take the payload.
And then you can do
a mutable operation here.
So I could say state.activesongs
= whatever the payload is.
So that means when you call this function,
you have to send up the new active songs.
And right now,
it's freaking out because a TypeScript so
I'm just going to need that thing.
Underneath that is using
something called Immer.
Which I think a lot of people use Redux
now, and Immer what it does is it allows
you to do mutable operations like this
using an equal sign, but underneath that,
it'll transform it to immutable operation.
That way, you get the best of both worlds.
You don't have to do all,
if you've ever had to write a reducer or
Redux you know what I'm talking about,
what spread operators and
it gets crazy when you're
trying to be immutable.
And no one wants to use the immutable
libraries cuz that's just not the way that
we write code.
No one wants to do get and
set everywhere to change an object.
So Immer allows you to just write
code like it normally is and
then underneath it transforms it
to an immutable operation for you.
So I'm pretty sure that's
what Easy Peasy is using,
I think even says it in our docs.
And then the next one is just another
action to change the act of song,
so changeActiveSong, singular.
And it's pretty much the same thing.
I was actually just gonna copy
this cuz it really is, except for
changing state.activesong
in our active songs
And that's it,
that's our store and we're done.
[LAUGH] It's really easy.
And then using it is also very easy,
it works with hooks, so
we'll be good to go there.
The last thing we gotta do before we start
using it in the hooks is that we just need
to, in order for everything to have
access to this store in the state,
obviously, I think context
is going to be applied here,
just like any other thing
would have context.
So we're gonna have to wrap our
app in a provider which has gonna
have access to the store.
So what we'll do as we'll go to the _app,
we need to go up top and
we have to import, From Easy Peasy,
and that's gonna be the store
provider store provider.
There we go, and we just need to
wrap the whole thing in a store.
So pretty much everything after
ChakraProvider is just gonna get wrapped
at the StoreProvider.
So we'll say StoreProvider, that's and all
the way down here to the StoreProvider.
And then as its only prop, it's gonna
take the store that we just created,
so it will say store and
then store that we can import.
And the next thing we wanna
do is we want to pull in our
state into the components
that are gonna use them.
So the only component that's
gonna use the state is gonna be,
probably the actual controls for
the player.
So that component that
we haven't made yet, so
what we'll do is we'll make
the component for that.
And then we'll just pull in the state and
we'll start building out the UI for that.
And this components gonna be a little
bigger than most of the other components
because, like I said,
there's a lot of things to keep track of.
There are a lot of DOM events
that were responding to.
There's animations,
there's the state thing now, so
it's gonna get pretty crazy but
that's the fun part.